Broken PR. Will be deleted (#9924)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/dev/troubleshooting/performance/system/tablets-moved.md

# Frequent tablet transfers between nodes

> {{ ydb-short-name }} automatically balances the load by transferring tablets from overloaded nodes to other nodes. This process is managed by [Hive](*hive). When Hive moves tablets, queries to those tablets suffer higher latencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ ydb-short-name }} automatically balances the load by transferring tablets from overloaded nodes to other nodes. This process is managed by [Hive](*hive). When Hive moves tablets, queries affecting those tablets might experience increased latencies while they wait for the tablet to get initialized on the new node.
```

> <!-- This information is taken from a draft topic Concepts > Hive. -->

Reviewer: Where's this draft? Let's review it there rather than do it two times.

- **Uneven distribution of database objects**

    {{ ydb-short-name }} uses the **ObjectImbalance** metric to monitor the distribution of tablets that use the **[counter](*counter)** resource across {{ ydb-short-name }} nodes. When {{ ydb-short-name }} nodes restart, these tablets might fail to distribute evenly, and Hive will start the autobalancing procedure.

## Diagnostics

<!-- The include is added to allow partial overrides in overlays  -->
{% include notitle [#](_includes/tablets-moved.md) %}

## Recommendations

Adjust Hive balancer values:

1. Open [Embedded UI](../../../../reference/embedded-ui/index.md).

1. Click **Developer UI** in the upper right corner of the Embedded UI.

1. In the **Developer UI**, navigate to **Tablets > Hive > App**.

    ![](_assets/hive-app.png)

1. Click **Settings**.

1. To reduce the chances of balancing, increase the following Hive balancer thresholds:

    - MinCounterScatterToBalance
    - MinCPUScatterToBalance
    - MinMemoryScatterToBalance
    - MinNetworkScatterToBalance
    - MaxNodeUsageToKick

>     - ObjectImbalanceToBalance

Reviewer: This better be a table with some description, defaults, allowed and practical ranges, etc.

    {% note info %}

    These parameters use relative values. The `1` value stands for `100$` and disables balancing. If the total value of the hardware resource can exceed 100%, adjust the ratio accordingly.

    {% endnote %}

[*counter]: Virtual resource that is used for balanncing tablets, which do not have other hardware resource metrics (CPU, memory, network), and for tablets of column-based tables. If a tablet has this resource, its value always equals to `1`.

> [*hive]: A Hive is a system tablet responsible for launching and managing other tablets. Its responsibilities include moving tablets between nodes in case of node failure or overload.

Reviewer: Let's just link to the glossary instead of creating local definitions.

Author: Linked Hive to a glossary. However, counter is not described in the glossary. So I kept the local definition for now.

Author: Linked Hive to a glossary. However, counter is not described in the glossary. So I kept the local definition for now.

Reviewer: I'd rather update the glossary right in this PR.
